President Donald Trump: The polarizing figure whose fortune lies in his heart
Public figure.
For decades Trump has introduced himself as a self-made billionaire who he started with
Nothing is more than a million dollar loan from his father.
And yet, as Donald's father, Fred Trump, has shown, he has had a much bigger role to play
In the rise of his son to the fore.
In this video, we'll look behind Trump billions, to see how he really got his real
Real estate empire.
This video was brought to you by Cheddar, from just released a great video on how some
One of the most expensive apartments in New York City pays the property tax below your average
Homepage.
Find out how by watching their video.
Donald's wealth story begins almost a century ago with the rise of his father.
Fred Trump was a real fraudster.
After losing his father at the age of 12, Farid had to learn how to work and make
He got in was construction.
He had built his first apartment house at the time when he was 20 years old
In a very appropriate moment.
As you can see, President Roosevelt just signed the new deal, which among other things he wanted
To encourage residential construction, the provision of loans and very cheap subsidies that was uniquely
Very eager to take.
In fact, from the 1930s onwards America enacted housing subsidies after housing subsidies, beginning
With the new deal, then with military housing during World War 2 and finally with post-war
GI Bill's Enabled Housing Boom.
US home ownership also jumped 20% in just 3 decades, Farid
Trump has amassed a fortune, largely empowered by the enormous sums he received from the government.
In 1949 alone, the FHA provided him with a $ 26 million loan to build two housing complexes in Brooklyn:
Shore Haven and Haven Beach.
Interesting though, it is not that he became rich using government money, and he is
Actually very typical, but he started a massive campaign of transferring money to his country
Children when he was only 40 years old.
The many methods he used were simple, but effective.
Before building those two apartment complexes in Brooklyn, Fred bought land that
It will be based on the use of his company.
Then he created the confidence that the beneficiaries were his children and donated the land
To trust.
Now because Farid Construction is no longer the owner of the land he wanted
It must be rented out of confidence through a contract known as a land lease.
Under this contract, you will gain more than $ 60,000 in confidence a year for the next 99 years,
Creating a steady stream of income for Donald at the time was only 3 years old.
But the leasing contracts were just the beginning because over the next twenty years, it was unique
Begin to move the buildings themselves to his children.
He buys a plot of land through an empty company, building apartments on that with
Government funds and he will gift the company's shares directly to his sons.
Now, this is not a very complicated scheme: in fact it actually bears a lot of gift tax,
Which uniquely does not seem to be paid.
If you go through his tax returns, it shows that he has paid a gift tax on only one of the original
Eight buildings moved in this way.
He built it in partnership for $ 2.5 million in 1968 and after a year of talented people
15% of the partnership for each one of his children.
If you do math the gift tax should come close to 100 thousand dollars, but he only paid six a and
Half.
Of course, it should be noted that Fred Trump has been followed up by New York State
Several times during the 50s and 60s to pay tax.
Despite these issues, he had no problem getting millions of dollars in support,
No doubt thanks to his political connections.
In fact, during this period Farid had built his greatest project, Trump Village,
Who earned $ 50 million from New York State which will also
He moved to Donald by dubious means, but this happens later.
After graduating from college in 1968, Donald of course went to work for his father's
This is when the wealth transfer really kicked into high gear.
In 1972, Donald and his father formed a partnership to secure a $ 8 million loan to build Prospect
tower.
Interestingly enough, although it is unique who did all the work, most of the profits
He went to Donald.
At the head of his share of the partnership, he was receiving consulting and management
Fees, as well as all tenants paid to rent air conditioners.
By 1975 Donald would have earned just over $ 300,000 for the whole year from this building and if I were the amount
Everything else arrives, by the time he was 29 he had received $ 9 million from his father.
Of course, a unique goal was not only to enrich Donald, but to build an image of
Him to help start his career.
In 1976 Donald put his net worth at $ 200 million, when in reality the projects
He was claiming as if he really was his father.
At the time, Donald was the president of the Trump organization, which she bore with
Huge salary, but moreover he was constantly receiving loans from Fred.
In 1979 Donald received loans for a total of $ 3 million from his father's companies
And the way these loans are structured is very exciting.
They came with a certain amount of interest, but it was paid off as soon as it was a loan
I took out and because the loan had no repayment, Donald's plan was free to keep the money indefinitely.
These loans and many more came flooding Donald's portfolio when he first started
A project in Manhattan, the Dean converted a hotel into a Grand Hyatt hotel between 1979 and
In 1980.
The exact same loans will show a second time when Donald was building Trump Tower
Between 1980 and 1983.
During this time Fred mastermind is another scheme for his children.
Using multiple trusts, he would buy mortgages of at least 14 of his properties
He would take them to the funds, whose beneficiaries were, of course, Donald's
His brothers.
Effectively, during the 1980s Donald became a banker for his father, although he never did
Already provided mortgage loans, he only pocketed their interest payments.
By the end of the eighties all distribution methods transferred nearly 50 million dollars
Donald of his father's empire, but that only encouraged him to take greater
Risks.
In 1988 he bought the Plaza Hotel for more than $ 400 million, and a year later he spent more
$ 350 million on Eastern Airways, which is named after the strange shuttle Trump.
The most famous of all, of course, is Donald entering the business casino of the Atlantic
City.
While this story is broad enough for every video on its own, what matters is when
Donald casinos started failing in the early nineties, it was Fred who supported matters
above.
Donald personally gave millions to prevent his casinos from defaulting
Before bankruptcy procedures they can be restructured to give the casinos more time to pay
Loans.
For example, Farid's personal income increased by order of magnitude to $ 50 million, which
A $ 12 million tax bill incurred.
During this time, no major debt made payments or charitable donations, and frugal
A man like him will never pay taxes, so the money must have gone somewhere.
Around the same time, a unique employee, who went to Trump Castle Casino, bought $ 3.35
Million dollars of casino chips left without placing any bets.
Another unique method used is to actually purchase stakes in Donald properties and then
To re-sell them puzzled a few years later.
In 1987 he bought 7.5% of Trump Palace, a 55-storey building in Manhattan, finished
15 million dollars.
Just four years later, Farid again sold a stake of just $ 10,000, arguing that
The work failed, although it was not.
In fact, in the same year that Trump Palace sold 57 apartments for more than $ 50 million.
In the early 1990s, however, Fred Health began to decline and even began to emerge
Symptoms of dementia.
Because he still did not transfer most of his wealth to his children
An impressive program began to withdraw everything he had left for them without paying real estate
Taxes before his death.
In 1992, his sons maintenance of the company that immediately became a sub-contractor
For all buildings uniquely.
All millions of dollars uniquely spent on fixes and improvements started
This company goes through one and they all incur a big sign.
Over the next few years the costs uniquely went the empire way.
In the case of Beach Haven, garbage compression increased services by 64%; The guard
Supplies increased 100%, plumbing increased 120%.
In 1994 Donald and his brothers also became more unique building managers
Drain cash from his empire.
By 1999 the unique mastermind methods were providing each of his children $ 2.2
Million in income annually.
Ultimately, when the day came to impart the same properties, the only thing
Who would have mattered how much the buildings would be so appreciated by Donald
Bro hired the notorious real estate appraiser to help them with their problem.
Using a variety of methods, he dropped the price of 25 apartment blocks by 7,000
Units to only $ 40 million.
The most hilarious method was the one by two buildings in Trump
The village actually has a negative value.
As you can see, in 1992, Farid removed these two types of buildings from the affordable housing program
So he can raise the rents, but he does that I lost their tax exemption under this program.
This creates a one-time accounting fee this, if you base your evaluation on that, makes
The building seems to be unprofitable although definitely not.
In the end, transferring the whole real Farid cost the real estate empire to him $ 20 million.
When Farid died in 1999 he had only $ 2 million in the bank and all of his property
He spent seven decades assembling who were now in the hands of his children.
Here's the funny thing: only five a year later, when Donald Atlantic City
The casinos were once again on the verge of bankruptcy, convincing his siblings to sell whole
Component, essence, design.
In early 2004, Donald and his brothers sold sisters off the empire and their father was
He spent his entire life gathering to the New York City real estate investor with $ 700 million,
Officially put an end to Fred Trump's legacy.
Of course, since then Donald has continued doing business and today his net worth is
It is estimated at around $ 3 billion, clearly though it got a massive start from
His father, he accomplished a lot on his own.
Regarding Fred Trump's legitimacy, ways to avoid taxes, even if they turn
To be criminal, the statute of limitations for them ended long ago, so Donald
He can only be fined with penalties.
Speaking of avoiding taxes, New York City has come with it, to the point that owners
Hundreds of millions of apartments pay less in real estate taxes than an average home.
Sometimes as low as 0.017%.
If you're curious how they get away from that, you should head to Cheddar,
Who made a great video on exactly this topic.
If you don't know, Cheddar Channel is the home to many fun videos covering
Business and technology and if you don't have them you should definitely go and check
Out and even consider subscribing.
In any case, thanks for watching.
You'll see me again in two weeks, until then: be smart.